Okay.
So in this lesson we will build out our grid based layout using CCS grid and that will allow us to have
the structure we need in order to place all of our subsequent elements like the headline text and later
on the picture, all within the confines of this grid.
All right.
So let's begin within our section element.
I'm going to remove our old text of I can be a hero, baby, and I'll start with a top level div.
And on this step I'll apply two classes.
The first one is going to be grid.
Again.
This is a class that is coming from Tailwind.
It's going to apply Display Grid, which is going to allow us to define a grid in the browser.
And then I have to specify how many columns I want the grid to have.
So I'm going to specify grid calls, 12, that is going to create 12 columns within my grid.
Now what I'd like to do is to populate the grid with the corresponding sections of it.
All right.
We're going to see how this works out in just a second.
And what I'm going to have is a layout where I'm going to have a box representing one column, so one
out of 12, then a box representing five columns.
And that's going to represent our main section where we have, for example, our headline text in our
form.
So one column, five columns, then another five column section of the grid, which is going to be where
we may place an image later on and then another column at the end.
And that's sort of going to be our padding.
So it's going to be basically one five, five one in terms of the distribution of how much of the grid
are individual elements here I'm going to take up and when we view this in the browser, it should make
more sense because we're going to see how they actually take up their respective space within this 12
column.
Great.
So in here, as I mentioned, since we're going to have these four different widths, I'm going to create
four diffs.
So let me create four gifts to begin with.
I'm just going to copy and paste right here, right here and right here.
All right.
And here I'm going to apply some tailwind classes.
So Div class, I'm going to do call start one.
This is just going to say start at column one.
So the very first column of 12 within my sixth grade.
And then I want this thing to span exactly one column.
So I'm going to say col span one that is the tail one class to say I want this to span the equivalent
of one column, start at the leftmost column, column one and make it span just one column out of 12.
In order to make this a little bit more obvious, I'm going to add some tailwind classes that we may
later remove that will add a border so we can see where each of these separate columns begins and ends.
So I'm just going to add a border class which will add a border and then I'll make it border blue 700,
just an arbitrary blue border.
So we see where this thing begins and ends.
And what I'm also going to do here is write some text in here so we can see it on the page.
And the text I'm going to write is going to reflect how many columns this thing takes up.
So I'll say that this will take up one column.
All right.
I'm going to do a very similar thing for our dev below.
I'm going to do class.
This one, I want to start at column two.
So I'm going to say call start two.
And this one, as I mentioned, I want to take up five columns within our 12.
So called span five will take a span or a distance of five columns.
And similarly, I'll add a border that's going to be blue.
So if you're keeping track right now, we have a 12 column table or a 12 column grid, rather, and
we've taken up six of its columns.
So right here, I'm going to add that this is taking up the equivalent of five columns within our 12.
All right.
Our next one is going to be very similar.
So I'm actually just going to copy this and place to right here.
The only difference here is we're not going to start a column two.
Obviously, we're now going to start at column seven.
So there we go.
That's going to spend five columns.
And the very last one is going to be very similar to our first one.
So I'm going to copy this first development, replace this.
And of course, instead of starting a call, start one, we're going to start at column number 12 and
span one column.
All right.
So just to reiterate, because I kind of rushed over here, we're starting at number seven.
So we're going to go seven, eight, nine, ten, 11.
So those are going to be the columns here.
Column seven through 11 is going to be one box within the browser.
And then the final 12 column is going to be its own little chunk.
And again, I've applied these classes so we can see how this plays out as well as the text.
So let's go see what this looks like in the browser.
And there we have our grid layout and that's exactly how grid works.
We basically said make a deal that's going to span the whole page, break it up into the equivalent
of 12 columns, and then distribute four boxes that are going to be respectively one column in width,
five columns, five columns in one column.
In fact, I believe if I bring up my elements, Inspector, I can even show you the grid and how it
looks right here in the browser.
We can see here that if I click on this grid, we can see those 12 columns arranged horizontally across
the web page, and you can see how I've arranged my columns to take up one, five, five and one respectively.
So this was my first time playing around with Access Grid, but this is basically how it works and it
also works the same way downwards if you want to do that.
But that's how you build out a grid based layout.
And so this one column at the very beginning and this one column at the end is sort of going to be the
equivalent of our padding.
It's just going to push the inner content in.
And here in these in these five columns is where we're going to play or render our headline or search
form or text, etc..
And here is where we're going to render our image, just like the official Google Careers website has.
All right.
So this is just building out the infrastructure to enable all of that later.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.